=Overview=

This module contains functions for accessing the hardware timers of the eLua CPU. In addition, if virtual timers are enabled (see here and here for details), they can be used just like the "regular" (hardware) timers with a single exception: you can't set the clock of a virtual timer (using <code>tmr.setclock</code>). To use virtual timers with this module, specify tmr.VIRTx as the timer ID instead of a number. For example, if the eLua image was configured to support 4 virtual timers, they will be available by using <code>tmr.VIRT0</code> to <code>tmr.VIRT3</code> as timer IDs. The system timer can also be used with any of these functions by omitting the timer ID or specifying it as <code>tmr.SYS_TIMER</code>.

All "time units" (delays, differences in time) in this module, as well as in other parts of eLua (timeouts) are expressed in microseconds (μs). However, please keep in mind that the actual timer resolution depends on many factors. For example, it's very likely that the <code>tmr.delay</code> function won't be able to delay for the exact amount you specify (in μs), as the real delay depends on a number of variables, most notably the base clock of the timer and the size of the timer counter register (32 bits on some platforms, 16 bits on most platforms, other values are less common). To ensure that the delay you're requesting is achievable, use <code>tmr.getmindelay</code> and <code>tmr.getmaxdelay</code> to obtain the maximum and the minimum achievable wait times on your timer, respectively. Even if your delay is within these limits, the precision of this function still varies a lot, mainly as a function of the timer base clock. Using the system timer is highly encouraged if it is available on the platform as it can eliminate the forementioned problems.

=Functions=

==tmr.delay==

Waits for the specified period, then returns.

 tmr.delay( id, period )

* id - the timer ID. Use nil or tmr.SYS_TIMER to specify the system timer.
* period - how long to wait (in μs).

==tmr.read==

Reads the timer counter register.

 counter = tmr.read( [id] )

* id (optional) - the timer ID. Use nil or tmr.SYS_TIMER to specify the system timer. Defaults to nil if not specified.

Returns:
* counter - The value of the timer counter register.

==tmr.start==

Starts the specified timer.

 counter = tmr.start( [id] )

* id (optional) - the timer ID. Use nil or tmr.SYS_TIMER to specify the system timer. Defaults to nil if not specified.

Returns:
* counter - The value of the timer counter register when the timer started.

==tmr.gettimediff==

Computes the time difference between two timer counter values (obtained by calling tmr.read or tmr.start).

 delta = tmr.gettimediff( id, start, end )

* id - the timer ID. Use nil or tmr.SYS_TIMER to specify the system timer.
* start - the initial counter value.
* end - the final counter value.

Returns:
* delta - The time difference (in μs).

The order of ''start'' and ''end'' is important. ''end'' must correspond to a moment in time which came after ''start''. The function knows how to deal with a single timer overflow condition (''end'' is less than ''start''); if the timer overflowed 2 or more times between ''start'' and ''end'' the result of this function will be incorrect.


==tmr.getdiffnow==

Computes the time difference between a counter value from the past (obtained by calling tmr.read or tmr.start) and the counter value corresponding to the current time.

 delta = tmr.getdiffnow( id, start )

* id - the timer ID. Use nil or tmr.SYS_TIMER to specify the system timer.
* start - the initial counter value.

Returns: The time difference (in μs).

==tmr.getmindelay==

Get the minimum achievable delay on the specified timer.

 mindelay = tmr.getmindelay( [id] )

* id (optional) - the timer ID. Use nil or tmr.SYS_TIMER to specify the system timer. Defaults to nil if not specified.

Returns:
* mindelay - The minimum achievable delay on the specified timer (in μs).

==tmr.getmaxdelay==

Get the maximum achievable delay on the specified timer.

 maxdelay = tmr.getmaxdelay( [id] )

* id (optional) - the timer ID. Use nil or tmr.SYS_TIMER to specify the system timer. Defaults to nil if not specified.

Returns:
* maxdelay - The maximum achievable delay on the specified timer (in μs).

==tmr.setclock==

Set the timer clock (the clock used to increment the timer counter register).

 clock = tmr.setclock( id, clock )

* id - the timer ID. Use nil or tmr.SYS_TIMER to specify the system timer.
* clock - the timer clock (in Hz).

Returns:
* clock - The actual clock set on the timer (in Hz). Depending on the hardware, this might have a different value than the clock argument. NOTE: this function does not work with virtual timers or the system timer.

==tmr.getclock==

Get the timer clock (the clock used to increment the timer counter register).

 clock = tmr.getclock( [id] )

* id (optional) - the timer ID. Use nil or tmr.SYS_TIMER to specify the system timer. Defaults to nil if not specified.

Returns:
* clock - The timer clock (in Hz).

==tmr.set_match_int==

Setup the timer match interrupt. Only available if interrupt support is enabled, check here for details.

 tmr.set_match_int( id, period, type )

* id - the timer ID. If <code>nil</code> it defaults to the system timer (but note that this happens only for consistency, as the system timer can't generate interrupts).
* period - the interrupt period in microseconds. Setting this to 0 disabled the timer match interrupt.
* type - <code>tmr.INT_ONESHOT</code> to generate a single interrupt after period microseconds, or <code>tmr.INT_CYCLIC</code> to generate interrupts every period microseconds.
